# California Assembly Bill 617

_Last updated January 31, 2021_

----

## Background

(http://www.airquality.org/air-quality-health/community-air-protection/ab-617-background)

> In 2017, Governor Brown signed [Assembly Bill 617 (C. Garcia, Chapter 136, Statutes of 2017)](https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201720180AB617) to develop a new community focused program to more effectively reduce exposure to air pollution and preserve public health. This bill directs the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and all local air districts, including the Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District (Sac Metro Air District or District), to take measures to protect communities disproportionally impacted by air pollution. With input from communities and air districts throughout California, [CARB developed a Community Air Protection Blueprint to implement AB 617](https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/community-air-protection-program/community-air-protection-blueprint).
>
> There are five central components to the new AB 617 mandate:
> 
> * Community-level air monitoring
> * A state strategy and community specific emission reduction plans
> * Accelerated review of retrofit pollution control technologies on industrial facilities subject to Cap-and-Trade
> * Enhanced emission reporting requirements
> * Increased penalty provisions for polluters
> 
> Additionally, CARB may direct additional grant funding to communities determined to have the highest air pollution burden.

----

# _TODO:_

# Overall

## How much money is being spent (annualy?) and where does it come from?

_TODO_

# Community monitoring component

_TODO_

## Summarise the goals of the "community-level air monitoring" component.

_TODO_

## How much money is being spent (annualy?) and where does it come from?

_TODO_

## Which state agencies are in charge?

_TODO_

## Which communities are involved?

_TODO_

## What progress has been made to date?

_TODO_

## Which of the Air Quality Managment Districts (AQMDs) have made the most progress?

_TODO_

## What other organizations (federal agencies universities, NGOs, ...) have been working with community data.

_TODO_

## To what extent is community monitoring data open access?

_TODO_


## What types of sensors/monitors are being used to generate data?

_TODO_

## What types of analysis have been done on this data?

_TODO_

## What software tools are being used to analyze this data?

_TODO_

## _Other interesting questions that come up_

_TODO_
